\documentclass[12pt,a4paper]{article}
\usepackage{t1enc}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}
\usepackage[english]{babel}
\usepackage{url,graphics,lscape}
\usepackage{a4wide}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{color}
%\usepackage{fancyheadings}
\usepackage{verbatim}

\vfuzz2pt % Don't report over-full v-boxes if over-edge is small
\hfuzz2pt % Don't report over-full h-boxes if over-edge is small

\newenvironment{mylisting}
{\begin{list}{}{\setlength{\leftmargin}{1em}}\item\small\bfseries}
{\end{list}}

\parskip 6pt         % sets spacing between paragraphs
\parindent 0pt       % sets leading space for paragraphs
%\pagestyle{fancy}
\begin{document}



\title{\textbf{FLAME}
\\Flexible Large-scale Agent-based Modelling Environment\\
 \emph{User Manual}}
\author{Simon Coakley\\Mariam Kiran
\\
\\ University of Sheffield
\\ Unit - USFD}
%\date{17 May 2006}

\maketitle

\pagebreak

\begin{abstract}

FLAME (Flexible Large-scale Agent-based Modelling Environment) is a
tool which allows modellers from all disciplines, economics, biology
or social sciences to easily write their own agent-based models. The
environment is a first of its kind which allows simulations of large
concentrations of agents to be run on parallel computers without any
hindrance to the modellers themselves.

This document present a comprehensive guide to the keywords and
functions available in the FLAME environment for the modellers to
write their own agent models to facilitate research. This user
manual describes how to create model description and write
implementation code for the agents.

Installation guides to the tools required with FLAME have been
provided separately in the document titled `\emph{Getting started
with FLAME}'. this documentation also contains details on executing
example FLAME code and running your own models.

\end{abstract}

\pagebreak
\tableofcontents
\pagebreak

\section{Introduction}

The FLAME framework is an enabling tool to create agent-based models
that can be run on high performance computers (HPCs). The framework
is based on the the logical communicating extended finite state
machine theory (X-machine) which gives the agents more power to
enable writing of complex models for large complex systems.

The agents are modelled as communicating X-machines allowing them to
communicate through messages being sent to each other as per
required by the modeller. This information is automatically read by
the FLAME framework and generate a simulation program which enables
these models to be parallelised efficiently over parallel computers.

The simulation program for FLAME is called the \textbf{Xparser}. The
Xparser is a series of compilation files which can be compiled with
the modeller's files to produce the simulation package for running
the simulations. Various tools have to be installed with the Xparser
to allow the simulation program o be produced. These have been
explained in the accompanying document, `\emph{Getting started with
FLAME}'.

Various parallel platforms like SCARF, (add more) have been used in
the development process to test the efficiency of the FLAME
framework. This work was done in conjunction with STFC and more
details of the results obtained can be found in `\emph{Deliverable
1.4: Porting of agent models to parallel computers}'.



\begin{figure}[!htb]
\begin{center}
  \includegraphics*[scale=0.35]{xparserdiag.eps}
  \caption{Block diagram of the Xparser, the FLAME simulation program. Blocks in blue are the files automatically generated. The green blocks are modeller files.}
  \label{fig:xparserdiag}
  \end{center}
\end{figure}

This document is a comprehensive guide to modellers of all
disciplines to write their own agent models with ease. The key
advantage of FLAME lies in the fact that modellers from all
disciplines, regardless of belonging to the computer science
background can write their own models with ease.

This document has been divided in the following order, Section
\ref{chap:design} describes the X-machine methodology to explain the
structure of the agents. Modellers are required to write only two
files for their model, model.xml and the functions of the agents.
Section \ref{model_description} describes how the model is written
focussing on writing the `model.xml' file which contains the
complete description of the model, with the agents involved, their
structures and the environment they exist in. Section
\ref{model_implementation} focuses on the second modeller file which
is writing the agent functions and the routines provided by FLAME.
Section \ref{model_execution} gives a brief description of how the
model can be executed with a summary of the facilities provided by
FLAME for data analysis for the output files generated. Appendices
provides a listing of the tags and the data flow documentation used
by FLAME.

\include{model_design}
\include{model_description}
\include{model_implementation}
\include{model_execution}

\appendix

\section{XML DTD}                       % B
\label{cha_xmldtd}

\small{{\tt \verbatiminput{xmml.dtd}}}


%\bibliographystyle{alpha}
%\bibliography{EURACE_refs}

\end{document}
